content/en/documentation/overview/milan-2025/_index.md, before:

---
title: "Milan Workshop Summary – June 2025"
linkTitle: "Milan June 2025 Event"
weight: 100
description: >-
  The European Cloud Accelerator community gathered in Milan in June 2025 for a multi-day workshop focused on advancing the vision of open, sovereign, and interoperable data spaces. The event brought together cloud providers, industrial data experts, open-source contributors, and policymakers to align efforts and accelerate progress across the ecosystem.
---

## Key Themes

### 🌍 Trusted Data Sharing at Scale
Trust emerged as the foundation for everything discussed. Participants emphasized that scalable data sharing across industries and borders requires verifiable identities, enforceable policies, and peer-to-peer exchange models that respect sovereignty.

> _"Your data, your choice — with great responsibility comes great power."_  
> — echoed across sessions as a guiding principle

### 🏗️ Technical Foundation: Eclipse Dataspace Components (EDC)
Demos and deep dives showcased how EDC can enable data spaces to operate across cloud, on-premises, and edge environments. Attendees explored how to deploy, extend, and contribute to EDC as a modular open-source stack.

Focus areas included:
- Multi-tenant EDC architectures
- Federated catalog and control plane evolution
- Deployment patterns across Azure, Fulcrum, and Opiquad-hosted clouds

### 🤝 Industry and Ecosystem Alignment
Leaders from Catena-X, Manufacturing-X, IDSA, iSHARE, and the OPC Foundation shared how they are building production-grade data spaces with real-world constraints:
- Automotive, supply chain, and energy sectors are prioritizing interoperability and self-sovereign identity
- Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) must be first-class citizens, with minimal onboarding friction
- Cross-domain and international cooperation is essential — “no one wants to onboard to five data spaces five different ways”

### 🧱 Standards and Regulation
With the EU Data Act taking effect, aligning with emerging standards became a top priority. Topics included:
- The upcoming harmonized European standards for data spaces (per Article 33)
- Profiles and protocols from the Eclipse DSSC working group
- Integration of OPC UA, AAS, and policy enforcement models across layers

## Takeaways & Next Steps

Babak Jahromi summarized the spirit of the workshop:

> _"We’ve come far — now everyone must ask: how do I plug in, and how do I contribute? Some of us will work on multi-tenancy. Others can test binaries in their native environment. The path is emerging."_

### Immediate Actions
- ✅ Test and deploy EDC in your own environment (Docker, Azure, Opiquad, etc.)
- ✅ Join a working group (EDC, DSSC, Gaia-X, IDSA, OPCF)
- ✅ Contribute use cases, feedback, and reference integrations
- ✅ Plan for migration paths — data spaces are now running in production

---
📚 [View the full introduction to the European Cloud Accelerator →](./agenda/)  
🔗 [Get started with Eclipse Dataspace Components](https://github.com/eclipse-edc)
📄 [ Download the June 2025 Workshop PDF](./June%202025%20-%20Milan%20-%20Cloud%20Accelerator%20%20Workshop%20-%20v2.pdf)

Commit message:

Enhance overview with OPCF details and resources
Added information about OPCF's role in bridging industrial automation and data spaces, including new initiatives and resources.

content/en/documentation/overview/milan-2025/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Milan Workshop Summary – June 2025"
linkTitle: "Milan June 2025 Event"
weight: 100
description: >-
  The European Cloud Accelerator community gathered in Milan in June 2025 for a multi-day workshop focused on advancing the vision of open, sovereign, and interoperable data spaces. The event brought together cloud providers, industrial data experts, open-source contributors, and policymakers to align efforts and accelerate progress across the ecosystem.
---

## Key Themes

### 🌍 Trusted Data Sharing at Scale
Trust emerged as the foundation for everything discussed. Participants emphasized that scalable data sharing across industries and borders requires verifiable identities, enforceable policies, and peer-to-peer exchange models that respect sovereignty.

> _"Your data, your choice — with great responsibility comes great power."_  
> — echoed across sessions as a guiding principle

### 🏗️ Technical Foundation: Eclipse Dataspace Components (EDC)
Demos and deep dives showcased how EDC can enable data spaces to operate across cloud, on-premises, and edge environments. Attendees explored how to deploy, extend, and contribute to EDC as a modular open-source stack.

Focus areas included:
- Multi-tenant EDC architectures
- Federated catalog and control plane evolution
- Deployment patterns across Azure, Fulcrum, and Opiquad-hosted clouds

### 🤝 Industry and Ecosystem Alignment
Leaders from Catena-X, Manufacturing-X, IDSA, iSHARE, **OPCF**, and the OPC Foundation shared how they are building production-grade data spaces with real-world constraints:  
- Automotive, supply chain, and energy sectors are prioritizing interoperability and self-sovereign identity  
- Small and medium enterprises (SMEs) must be first-class citizens, with minimal onboarding friction  
- Cross-domain and international cooperation is essential — “no one wants to onboard to five data spaces five different ways”  
- **OPCF highlighted its role in bridging industrial automation and data spaces, including initiatives such as [“OPC UA for Battery Solutions”](https://opcfoundation.org/news/press-releases/opc-ua-for-battery/) where European Cloud partners, Fraunhofer, Catena-X, Microsoft, Huawei, and others are prototyping a digital battery passport**  

### 🧱 Standards and Regulation
With the EU Data Act taking effect, aligning with emerging standards became a top priority. Topics included:
- The upcoming harmonized European standards for data spaces (per Article 33)
- Profiles and protocols from the Eclipse DSSC working group
- Integration of OPC UA, AAS, and policy enforcement models across layers

## Takeaways & Next Steps

Babak Jahromi summarized the spirit of the workshop:

> _"We’ve come far — now everyone must ask: how do I plug in, and how do I contribute? Some of us will work on multi-tenancy. Others can test binaries in their native environment. The path is emerging."_

### Immediate Actions
- ✅ Test and deploy EDC in your own environment (Docker, Azure, Opiquad, etc.)  
- ✅ Join a working group (EDC, DSSC, Gaia-X, IDSA, [OPCF](https://opcfoundation.org/))  
- ✅ Contribute use cases, feedback, and reference integrations  
- ✅ Plan for migration paths — data spaces are now running in production  

---
📚 [View the full introduction to the European Cloud Accelerator →](./agenda/)  
🔗 [Get started with Eclipse Dataspace Components](https://github.com/eclipse-edc)  
🔗 [Learn more about OPCF and OPC UA](https://opcfoundation.org/)  
📄 [Download the June 2025 Workshop PDF](./June%202025%20-%20Milan%20-%20Cloud%20Accelerator%20%20Workshop%20-%20v2.pdf)
