content/en/documentation/overview/_index.md, before:

---
title: Documentation
linkTitle: Docs
menu: {main: {weight: 20}}
weight: 20

cascade:
  - type: "docs"
---
# European Cloud Accelerator

## Introduction

The **European Cloud Accelerator (ECA)** is a collaborative initiative to enable a new era of *trusted, sovereign, and interoperable data sharing* across Europe’s digital landscape.

At its core, the ECA is about helping organizations across sectors—public, private, and academic—build and adopt **data spaces**: decentralized, policy-driven ecosystems where data can be shared under clear terms, across company and cloud boundaries, without losing control or sovereignty.

## Why It Matters

Data is the raw material of the digital economy—but it only becomes valuable when it is *shared and reused*. Traditional models of isolated data silos and central platforms no longer serve the needs of interconnected supply chains, cross-border regulation, or AI development.

The European Cloud Accelerator aims to:

- **Scale data spaces as-a-service** across Europe’s cloud and edge infrastructure
- **Create economic opportunities** for European cloud and technology providers
- **Support compliance** with key European legislation (e.g. the Data Act, Digital Product Passport, Carbon Accounting)
- **Foster innovation** in AI, sustainability, manufacturing, logistics, and beyond

## Guiding Principles

We follow several core principles inspired by shared values across the European data and cloud communities:

1. **Trust-by-design**  
   Data spaces establish trust between participants using verifiable credentials, usage policies, and decentralized identity mechanisms.

2. **Your data, your rules**  
   Data sovereignty means participants stay in control of who uses their data, how, for how long, and where. Data doesn’t flow through intermediaries—it flows peer-to-peer.

3. **Interoperability at every level**  
   We support open standards (e.g. ISO 20151, DSP, DCP, OPC UA) and open protocols to ensure data and services can connect across domains, providers, and national borders.

4. **Open source as foundation**  
   Core building blocks—like the Eclipse Dataspace Components—are open, modular, and extensible. This fosters shared innovation and avoids lock-in.

5. **Decentralization and neutrality**  
   There is no central authority. Governance is defined by the community, and services are federated across cloud providers, industries, and countries.

## The Work Ahead

The ECA is not a top-down project—it’s a community of contributors working across multiple layers:

- **Cloud and Edge providers**: Offering scalable, sovereign infrastructure for hosting data spaces
- **Software developers and open-source communities**: Building and extending reusable components
- **Standards bodies and policymakers**: Shaping regulation and interoperability frameworks
- **Industry consortia and domain experts**: Defining real-world use cases and requirements
- **End users**: Bringing adoption, feedback, and demand

## Join the Movement

Everyone has a role to play—whether you're a cloud provider, startup, regulator, researcher, or industrial partner. The European Cloud Accelerator is a **shared, long-term journey** to transform how data is shared, trusted, and monetized in Europe.

Let’s build it—together.

---

🌐 Learn more: [https://github.com/eclipse-edc](https://github.com/eclipse-edc)  
📄 Key reference: ISO/IEC 20151 – Definition of Data Spaces  
🤝 Join a working group: IDSA, Gaia-X, DSSC, OPC Foundation, iSHARE, Catena-X

Commit message:

Fix capitalization of 'dataspaces' in documentation
We don't use space chat in between "data" and "spaces" :-)

content/en/documentation/overview/_index.md, after:

---
title: Documentation
linkTitle: Docs
menu: {main: {weight: 20}}
weight: 20

cascade:
  - type: "docs"
---
# European Cloud Accelerator

## Introduction

The **European Cloud Accelerator (ECA)** is a collaborative initiative to enable a new era of *trusted, sovereign, and interoperable data sharing* across Europe’s digital landscape.

At its core, the ECA is about helping organizations across sectors—public, private, and academic—build and adopt **dataspaces**: decentralized, policy-driven ecosystems where data can be shared under clear terms, across company and cloud boundaries, without losing control or sovereignty.

## Why It Matters

Data is the raw material of the digital economy—but it only becomes valuable when it is *shared and reused*. Traditional models of isolated data silos and central platforms no longer serve the needs of interconnected supply chains, cross-border regulation, or AI development.

The European Cloud Accelerator aims to:

- **Scale dataspaces as-a-service** across Europe’s cloud and edge infrastructure
- **Create economic opportunities** for European cloud and technology providers
- **Support compliance** with key European legislation (e.g. the Data Act, Digital Product Passport, Carbon Accounting)
- **Foster innovation** in AI, sustainability, manufacturing, logistics, and beyond

## Guiding Principles

We follow several core principles inspired by shared values across the European data and cloud communities:

1. **Trust-by-design**  
   dataspaces establish trust between participants using verifiable credentials, usage policies, and decentralized identity mechanisms.

2. **Your data, your rules**  
   Data sovereignty means participants stay in control of who uses their data, how, for how long, and where. Data doesn’t flow through intermediaries—it flows peer-to-peer.

3. **Interoperability at every level**  
   We support open standards (e.g. ISO 20151, DSP, DCP, OPC UA) and open protocols to ensure data and services can connect across domains, providers, and national borders.

4. **Open source as foundation**  
   Core building blocks—like the Eclipse Dataspace Components—are open, modular, and extensible. This fosters shared innovation and avoids lock-in.

5. **Decentralization and neutrality**  
   There is no central authority. Governance is defined by the community, and services are federated across cloud providers, industries, and countries.

## The Work Ahead

The ECA is not a top-down project—it’s a community of contributors working across multiple layers:

- **Cloud and Edge providers**: Offering scalable, sovereign infrastructure for hosting dataspaces
- **Software developers and open-source communities**: Building and extending reusable components
- **Standards bodies and policymakers**: Shaping regulation and interoperability frameworks
- **Industry consortia and domain experts**: Defining real-world use cases and requirements
- **End users**: Bringing adoption, feedback, and demand

## Join the Movement

Everyone has a role to play—whether you're a cloud provider, startup, regulator, researcher, or industrial partner. The European Cloud Accelerator is a **shared, long-term journey** to transform how data is shared, trusted, and monetized in Europe.

Let’s build it—together.

---

🌐 Learn more: [https://github.com/eclipse-edc](https://github.com/eclipse-edc)  
📄 Key reference: ISO/IEC 20151 – Definition of dataspaces  
🤝 Join a working group: IDSA, Gaia-X, DSSC, OPC Foundation, iSHARE, Catena-X
