content/en/documentation/overview/bergamo-2025/_index.md, before:

# Join us in Bergamo – European Cloud Accelerator Follow-up Workshop (6–7 Oct 2025)

Dear colleague,

After our energising Milan workshop in June, the European Cloud Accelerator (ECA) community is reconvening—this time at Aruba’s Global Datacenter headquarters in **Bergamo, Italy**, on **Monday 6 & Tuesday 7 October 2025**.
The ECA’s mission remains unchanged: to turn trusted, sovereign and interoperable data-sharing into everyday reality for European industry. Our next gathering will move us from concepts to concrete deployments—bringing business leaders and engineers together under one (very large) roof. We will share progress on the [Open Source Eclipse Data Components project](https://github.com/eclipse-edc), which already serves as the base of the Catena-X platform supporting, among others, BMW’s Data Space initiatives.

<span style="color:red">**Note:** The agenda, hotel details, and other information are subject to change.</span>

---
## What to Expect

| When                     | Track                    | Highlights                                                                                                                                   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mon 6 Oct – 10:00         | Plenary kick-off         | Welcome + project overview for both business & technical stakeholders                                                                         |
| After lunch (13:00)       | Business track (½ day)   | • IDC briefing on the €-scale market for data-spaces hosting under the EU Data Act<br>• Fireside perspectives from BMW, Airbus, Manufacturing-X, Catena-X, Decade-X, OPC Foundation & more |
| Mon 6 afternoon → Tue 7   | Technical track (1½ days)| • Deep dive on Eclipse Dataspace Components (EDC) architecture & roadmap:<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;1) Multi-tenancy<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;2) Industrial data plane using OPC UA/AAS<br>• Hands-on sessions with Fulcrum, Liqo and multi-cloud deployment patterns<br>• Break-outs on multi-tenancy, policy enforcement and DevOps pipelines |

*(A detailed agenda will follow; expect doors to close by 16:00 CET on Tue 7 Oct.)*

---

## Why You Should Attend

- **See real deployments**: Partners will showcase how they are running EDC.  
- **Meet the ecosystem**: Industry consortia and standards bodies will align on the next steps towards Data-Act compliance and harmonised EU standards.  
- **Shape the roadmap**: Your input will guide the open-source workstreams launched in Milan—from multi-tenant EDC to conformance tooling.  

---

## Prepare & Stay Informed

- **Missed Milan?** All slide decks, recordings and key take-aways are available [here](https://metaform.github.io/dcsa/documentation/overview/milan-2025/).  
- Pre-reads & short videos will be shared a few weeks before the event to help you hit the ground running.  
- Please plan on getting up-to-date before the Bergamo workshop.  

---

## Reserve Your Seat

Places are limited. Please confirm your attendance by **Friday 19 September** via the [registration form](https://forms.office.com/e/P4nTzcJvU0).

---

## Getting There

| Airport                       | Road distance to venue | Typical drive time* |
|--------------------------------|------------------------|----------------------|
| Milan Bergamo / Orio al Serio (BGY) | 9 km                   | 15 min               |
| Milan Linate (LIN)                 | 47 km                  | 45–50 min            |
| Milan Malpensa (MXP)               | 89 km                  | 1 hr 05 min          |

\*Traffic permitting.

---

## Nearby Hotels (Hand-picked)

| Hotel                       | Distance / travel time | Address                                                                 |
|------------------------------|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Borgo Brianteo ****        | 3 km / 5 min taxi      | Via Armando Diaz 25/A, 24036 Ponte San Pietro [hotelborgobrianteo.com](http://hotelborgobrianteo.com) |
| **Bes Hotel Bergamo West ****| 5 km / 10 min taxi     | Via Fausto Radici 3, 24030 Mozzo [Trip.com](https://www.trip.com)       |
| **Settecento Hotel ****      | 2.5 km / 7 min taxi    | Via Milano 3, 24030 Presezzo [Booking.com](https://www.booking.com)     |

*(Prefer to stay at the airport? The Winter Garden Hotel in Grassobbio is 2 km from BGY.)*

More lodging options may be listed, so please check back.

---

If you need an invitation letter or have dietary/access requirements, just let us know.  
We look forward to building on the momentum and seeing how **you** will plug in and contribute.  

See you in Bergamo!  <span style="color:red">**Note:** The agenda, hotel details, and other information are subject to change.</span>

Kind regards,  
**The European Cloud Accelerator organising team**

Commit message:

Update metadata for Bergamo October 2025 event
Added metadata for the Bergamo Workshop event in October 2025.

content/en/documentation/overview/bergamo-2025/_index.md, after:

---
title: "Bergamo Workshop – October 2025"
linkTitle: "Bergamo October 2025 Event"
weight: 100
description: >-
  Join The European Cloud Accelerator community  in Bergamo in October 2025 for a multi-day workshop focused on advancing the vision of open, sovereign, and interoperable data spaces.
---
# Join us in Bergamo – European Cloud Accelerator Follow-up Workshop (6–7 Oct 2025)

Dear colleague,

After our energising Milan workshop in June, the European Cloud Accelerator (ECA) community is reconvening—this time at Aruba’s Global Datacenter headquarters in **Bergamo, Italy**, on **Monday 6 & Tuesday 7 October 2025**.
The ECA’s mission remains unchanged: to turn trusted, sovereign and interoperable data-sharing into everyday reality for European industry. Our next gathering will move us from concepts to concrete deployments—bringing business leaders and engineers together under one (very large) roof. We will share progress on the [Open Source Eclipse Data Components project](https://github.com/eclipse-edc), which already serves as the base of the Catena-X platform supporting, among others, BMW’s Data Space initiatives.

<span style="color:red">**Note:** The agenda, hotel details, and other information are subject to change.</span>

---
## What to Expect

| When                     | Track                    | Highlights                                                                                                                                   |
|---------------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Mon 6 Oct – 10:00         | Plenary kick-off         | Welcome + project overview for both business & technical stakeholders                                                                         |
| After lunch (13:00)       | Business track (½ day)   | • IDC briefing on the €-scale market for data-spaces hosting under the EU Data Act<br>• Fireside perspectives from BMW, Airbus, Manufacturing-X, Catena-X, Decade-X, OPC Foundation & more |
| Mon 6 afternoon → Tue 7   | Technical track (1½ days)| • Deep dive on Eclipse Dataspace Components (EDC) architecture & roadmap:<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;1) Multi-tenancy<br>&nbsp;&nbsp;2) Industrial data plane using OPC UA/AAS<br>• Hands-on sessions with Fulcrum, Liqo and multi-cloud deployment patterns<br>• Break-outs on multi-tenancy, policy enforcement and DevOps pipelines |

*(A detailed agenda will follow; expect doors to close by 16:00 CET on Tue 7 Oct.)*

---

## Why You Should Attend

- **See real deployments**: Partners will showcase how they are running EDC.  
- **Meet the ecosystem**: Industry consortia and standards bodies will align on the next steps towards Data-Act compliance and harmonised EU standards.  
- **Shape the roadmap**: Your input will guide the open-source workstreams launched in Milan—from multi-tenant EDC to conformance tooling.  

---

## Prepare & Stay Informed

- **Missed Milan?** All slide decks, recordings and key take-aways are available [here](https://metaform.github.io/dcsa/documentation/overview/milan-2025/).  
- Pre-reads & short videos will be shared a few weeks before the event to help you hit the ground running.  
- Please plan on getting up-to-date before the Bergamo workshop.  

---

## Reserve Your Seat

Places are limited. Please confirm your attendance by **Friday 19 September** via the [registration form](https://forms.office.com/e/P4nTzcJvU0).

---

## Getting There

| Airport                       | Road distance to venue | Typical drive time* |
|--------------------------------|------------------------|----------------------|
| Milan Bergamo / Orio al Serio (BGY) | 9 km                   | 15 min               |
| Milan Linate (LIN)                 | 47 km                  | 45–50 min            |
| Milan Malpensa (MXP)               | 89 km                  | 1 hr 05 min          |

\*Traffic permitting.

---

## Nearby Hotels (Hand-picked)

| Hotel                       | Distance / travel time | Address                                                                 |
|------------------------------|------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Borgo Brianteo ****        | 3 km / 5 min taxi      | Via Armando Diaz 25/A, 24036 Ponte San Pietro [hotelborgobrianteo.com](http://hotelborgobrianteo.com) |
| **Bes Hotel Bergamo West ****| 5 km / 10 min taxi     | Via Fausto Radici 3, 24030 Mozzo [Trip.com](https://www.trip.com)       |
| **Settecento Hotel ****      | 2.5 km / 7 min taxi    | Via Milano 3, 24030 Presezzo [Booking.com](https://www.booking.com)     |

*(Prefer to stay at the airport? The Winter Garden Hotel in Grassobbio is 2 km from BGY.)*

More lodging options may be listed, so please check back.

---

If you need an invitation letter or have dietary/access requirements, just let us know.  
We look forward to building on the momentum and seeing how **you** will plug in and contribute.  

See you in Bergamo!  <span style="color:red">**Note:** The agenda, hotel details, and other information are subject to change.</span>

Kind regards,  
**The European Cloud Accelerator organising team**
