content/en/documentation/overview/bergamo-2025/agenda.md, before:

---
title: "Agenda"
linkTitle: "Agenda"
weight: 200
description: >-
     Bergamo October 2025 Event Agenda  
---
# European Cloud Accelerator Workshop Agenda  
📍 Bergamo – October 6,7 2025  

---

## 🗓 Monday, October 6

### ⏰ 09:30 — Plenary Kick-off  
**Presenter:** Babak — 10 min  
- Align on objectives and action items  

---

## BUSINESS TRACK – DAY 1

Our approach is highly interactive — we are avoiding formal speeches in favor of surfacing issues and collectively working through them.  

### ⏰ 10:30 — Business Workshop Discussions  

**1. Business Models**  
- Clarify what each community of actors needs for ECA success:  
  - Top-level enterprises  
  - Dataspace Associations  
  - Cloud Service Providers  
  - Trust Framework Providers  
  - Supply chain participants  

**2. Scale and Segmentation**  
- Define what “scale” means for each actor group  
- Discuss how supply chain segmentation affects approach  
- Agree on milestones to track solution progress over time  

**3. Incentives**  
- Identify how the ECA community can use incentives to drive behaviors  
- Prioritize where incentives should focus to maximize success (e.g., scale)  
- Explore additional incentive programs for maximum impact  

**4. IDC Presentation**  
- Phase 1 analysis and conclusions  
- Phase 2 research targets and inputs  

**5. Labeling and Evaluation**  
- Role of trust frameworks  
- Agree on labeling objectives and methods  
- Settle on essential metrics that unify the community  
- Identify data and reporting needed to demonstrate progress and provide evidence to funding sources  

**6. Communications**  
- Discuss possible February public launch of ECA  
- Agree on next steps  

### ⏰ 12:30 — 🍽 Lunch (12:30–13:30)

### ⏰ 13:30 — Business Track Continues  
- Roundtable work and drafting of key action items  

---

## TECHNICAL TRACK – DAY 1  
*(Full agenda to be published soon)*  
- Breakouts, deep dives, and architecture design sessions  

---

### ⏰ Evening — 🍷 Networking Dinner  
- Sponsored by Microsoft, location TBC  

---

## 🗓 Tuesday, October 7

## BUSINESS TRACK – DAY 2

### ⏰ 09:30 — Business Strategy Wrap-Up  
- Synthesize outcomes from Day 1  
- Present consolidated recommendations  
- Define joint commitments, timelines, and next steps  

---

## TECHNICAL TRACK – DAY 2

### ⏰ 09:30 — Technical Deep Dives (All Day)  
- Multi-tenancy architecture, control/data plane evolution, SDK deep dives, Aruba whitelabel UI, Catena-X contributions, Opiquad hosting experience, and interactive design sessions  

### ⏰ 12:30 — 🍽 Lunch (12:30–13:30)

### ⏰ 13:30 — Aruba Datacenter Tour (13:30–14:30)  
- Three guided tour groups, technical participants only  

### ⏰ 14:30 — Technical Track Wrap-Up  
- Roadmap alignment, partner asks, and next steps  

### ⏰ 16:00 — END OF DAY 2

Commit message:

Revise Monday agenda with track information
Updated the agenda for Monday, October 6, to include presenters and track details.

content/en/documentation/overview/bergamo-2025/agenda.md, after:

---
title: "Agenda"
linkTitle: "Agenda"
weight: 200
description: >-
     Bergamo October 2025 Event Agenda  
---
# European Cloud Accelerator Workshop Agenda  
📍 Bergamo – October 6,7 2025  

---

## 🗓 Monday, October 6

### ⏰ 09:30 — Plenary Kick-off with Business & Technical Track
**Presenters:** Aruba, Babak Jahromi & Jason Matusow (Microsoft) — 60 min  
- Introductions & Logistics
- Align on objectives and action items for the 2 days

After the first hour we split into two tracks, a business & technical track. 
---

## BUSINESS TRACK – DAY 1

Our approach is highly interactive — we are avoiding formal speeches in favor of surfacing issues and collectively working through them.  

### ⏰ 10:30 — Business Workshop Discussions  

**1. Business Models**  
- Clarify what each community of actors needs for ECA success:  
  - Top-level enterprises  
  - Dataspace Associations  
  - Cloud Service Providers  
  - Trust Framework Providers  
  - Supply chain participants  

**2. Scale and Segmentation**  
- Define what “scale” means for each actor group  
- Discuss how supply chain segmentation affects approach  
- Agree on milestones to track solution progress over time  

**3. Incentives**  
- Identify how the ECA community can use incentives to drive behaviors  
- Prioritize where incentives should focus to maximize success (e.g., scale)  
- Explore additional incentive programs for maximum impact  

**4. IDC Presentation**  
- Phase 1 analysis and conclusions  
- Phase 2 research targets and inputs  

**5. Labeling and Evaluation**  
- Role of trust frameworks  
- Agree on labeling objectives and methods  
- Settle on essential metrics that unify the community  
- Identify data and reporting needed to demonstrate progress and provide evidence to funding sources  

**6. Communications**  
- Discuss possible February public launch of ECA  
- Agree on next steps  

### ⏰ 12:30 — 🍽 Lunch (12:30–13:30)

### ⏰ 13:30 — Business Track Continues  
- Roundtable work and drafting of key action items  

---

## TECHNICAL TRACK – DAY 1  
*(Full agenda to be published soon)*  
- Breakouts, deep dives, and architecture design sessions  

---

### ⏰ Evening — 🍷 Networking Dinner  
- Sponsored by Microsoft, location TBC  

---

## 🗓 Tuesday, October 7

## BUSINESS TRACK – DAY 2

### ⏰ 09:30 — Business Strategy Wrap-Up  
- Synthesize outcomes from Day 1  
- Present consolidated recommendations  
- Define joint commitments, timelines, and next steps  

---

## TECHNICAL TRACK – DAY 2

### ⏰ 09:30 — Technical Deep Dives (All Day)  
- Multi-tenancy architecture, control/data plane evolution, SDK deep dives, Aruba whitelabel UI, Catena-X contributions, Opiquad hosting experience, and interactive design sessions  

### ⏰ 12:30 — 🍽 Lunch (12:30–13:30)

### ⏰ 13:30 — Aruba Datacenter Tour (13:30–14:30)  
- Three guided tour groups, technical participants only  

### ⏰ 14:30 — Technical Track Wrap-Up  
- Roadmap alignment, partner asks, and next steps  

### ⏰ 16:00 — END OF DAY 2
